README.md, before:

# az-assignment
<h4><u>Student Register</u></h4>

#### How to run :
Download / Clone the repo, and just run <b>`gradlew build bootRun`</b> to build and boot the application.
After successful build visit <b><i>`http://localhost:8080`</i></b> 

#### project-timeline :
1. Created a spring-boot project using https://start.spring.io/ using the following dependencies;
![alt text](https://github.com/dashinglokie/az-assignment/blob/master/res/spring-startup.png?raw=true)
2. Restructured project for 'spring' and 'ui' modules.
3. Added Angular boiler-plate code and pointed in to the same port.
4. Project modules created in spring and connected with H2 db
5. Added REST endpoint and services for the basic CRUD operations.
6. Replaced the UI boiler-plate code with Reactive-Form and Mat-Table.
7. Added basic form validation using Validators.
8. Enable/Disable of buttons based on condition.
9. UI and functional tweaks, converted date value.
10. Loaded the H2 DB with intial-data.
11. Fixed an issue with ISO-date-convertion.
12. Added minimal UI styles and button validations.

#### Application Walkthrough :

* H2 DB console
![alt text](https://github.com/dashinglokie/az-assignment/blob/master/res/h2console.png?raw=true)


* H2 DB schema and initial data inserted through application.properties
![alt text](https://github.com/dashinglokie/az-assignment/blob/master/res/initialDataLoaded_H2db.png?raw=true)


* First load of Web Application with data from backend
![alt text](https://github.com/dashinglokie/az-assignment/blob/master/res/firstAppLoad.png?raw=true)

#### Scenarios covered :

* The primary key is an autogenerated ID field, therefore it allows duplicate names, address, dob.
* Initially all the buttons are in disabled state. Validation is checked for non-emptiness and then <b>Add</b> button is enabled.
* While new data are typed in the form, the <b>Delete</b> and <b>Update</b> buttons are disabled.
* When a Grid row is selected, the selected record gets populated in the Form with <b>Delete</b> button enabled.
* If any changes are made to the populated form fields, then <b>Update</b> button is enabled.
* Add, Update, Delete operations are immediately reflected in the Grid table.
* Pagination is implemented.

#### What Next :
- This is a simple basic implementation of CRUD operations using Angular & Springboot. So the backend and frontend is bundled as a single project for easy deployment using Gradle.
- If the implentations are further extended, then it would be best to separate the UI and Backend service and bundle them using Docker / Kubernetes.
- In the Angular, routing can be implemented for routing to different components and views.
- In Java, Service can be abstracted to be just an interface and that can be implemented using a Manager class.
- Cors and other request level security and Spring security can be implemented.

                                ***[`Happy Hacking`]***

Commit message:

Updated the README file with additional documentation

README.md, after:

# az-assignment
<h4><u>Student Register</u></h4>

#### How to run :
Download / Clone the repo, and just run <b>`gradlew build bootRun`</b> to build and boot the application.
After successful build visit <b><i>`http://localhost:8080`</i></b> 

##### [Update]
If there is any problem in gradle build like this,
![alt text](https://github.com/dashinglokie/az-assignment/blob/master/res/toolsJarErr.png?raw=true)

then, update the `gradle.properties` file with the JDK path,
![alt text](https://github.com/dashinglokie/az-assignment/blob/master/res/jdkPathGradle.png?raw=true)

#### project-timeline :
1. Created a spring-boot project using https://start.spring.io/ using the following dependencies;
![alt text](https://github.com/dashinglokie/az-assignment/blob/master/res/spring-startup.png?raw=true)
2. Restructured project for 'spring' and 'ui' modules.
3. Added Angular boiler-plate code and pointed in to the same port.
4. Project modules created in spring and connected with H2 db
5. Added REST endpoint and services for the basic CRUD operations.
6. Replaced the UI boiler-plate code with Reactive-Form and Mat-Table.
7. Added basic form validation using Validators.
8. Enable/Disable of buttons based on condition.
9. UI and functional tweaks, converted date value.
10. Loaded the H2 DB with intial-data.
11. Fixed an issue with ISO-date-convertion.
12. Added minimal UI styles and button validations.

#### Application Walkthrough :

* H2 DB console
![alt text](https://github.com/dashinglokie/az-assignment/blob/master/res/h2console.png?raw=true)


* H2 DB schema and initial data inserted through application.properties
![alt text](https://github.com/dashinglokie/az-assignment/blob/master/res/initialDataLoaded_H2db.png?raw=true)


* First load of Web Application with data from backend
![alt text](https://github.com/dashinglokie/az-assignment/blob/master/res/firstAppLoad.png?raw=true)

#### Scenarios covered :

* The primary key is an autogenerated ID field, therefore it allows duplicate names, address, dob.
* Initially all the buttons are in disabled state. Validation is checked for non-emptiness and then <b>Add</b> button is enabled.
* While new data are typed in the form, the <b>Delete</b> and <b>Update</b> buttons are disabled.
* When a Grid row is selected, the selected record gets populated in the Form with <b>Delete</b> button enabled.
* If any changes are made to the populated form fields, then <b>Update</b> button is enabled.
* Add, Update, Delete operations are immediately reflected in the Grid table.
* Pagination is implemented.

#### What Next :
- This is a simple basic implementation of CRUD operations using Angular & Springboot. So the backend and frontend is bundled as a single project for easy deployment using Gradle.
- If the implentations are further extended, then it would be best to separate the UI and Backend service and bundle them using Docker / Kubernetes.
- In the Angular, routing can be implemented for routing to different components and views.
- In Java, Service can be abstracted to be just an interface and that can be implemented using a Manager class.
- Cors and other request level security and Spring security can be implemented.

                                ***[`Happy Hacking`]***
